feat: UI Unit screenshot (#1408)
vaadin/docs: articles/tools/testbench/ui-unit-testing-screenshot.asciidoc

---
title: Screenshots in UI Unit Testing
order: 161
layout: page
---

[[testbench.uiunit.screenshot]]
= Screenshots in UI Unit Testing

> UI Unit testing supports returning a text representation of the UI for failing tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UI Unit testing supports returning a text representation of the UI for tests that fail.
```

> .Screenshot Of Failing Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Screenshot of Test That Fails
```

    │   │   └── H1[text='Hello World', @class='view-title']
    │   ├── Section[@class='drawer-section', @slot='drawer']
    │   │   ├── H2[text='My App', @class='app-name']
    │   │   ├── Nav[@aria-labelledby='views', @class='menu-item-container']
    │   │   │   └── UnorderedList[@class='navigation-list']
    │   │   │       ├── MenuItemInfo[]
    │   │   │       │   └── RouterLink[@class='menu-item-link']
    │   │   │       │       ├── LineAwesomeIcon[@class='menu-item-icon la la-globe']
    │   │   │       │       └── Span[text='Hello World', @class='menu-item-text']
    │   │   │       └── MenuItemInfo[]
    │   │   │           └── RouterLink[@class='menu-item-link']
    │   │   │               ├── LineAwesomeIcon[@class='menu-item-icon la la-file']
    │   │   │               └── Span[text='About', @class='menu-item-text']
    │   │   └── Footer[@class='footer']
    │   └── HelloWorldView[@theme='margin spacing']
    │       ├── TextField[label='Your name', value='', @style='align-self:flex-end']
    │       └── Button[caption='Say hello', @style='align-self:flex-end']
    └── Notification[duration='5000', opened='true', position='bottom-start']
----

> The feature is by default not used and can be enabled by adding `@ExtendWith(TreeOnFailureExtension.class)` to the test class in JUnit5.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The feature is not active by default and can be enabled by adding `@ExtendWith(TreeOnFailureExtension.class)` to the test class in JUnit5.
```

> For JUnit4 the `UIUnit4Test` contains the method `printTree` that by default returns false, so overriding this in the test and returning true will enable the feature for JUnit4.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For JUnit4 tests based on [classname]`UIUnit4Test`, the feature can be activated by overriding the [methodname]`printTree()` method to return true.
```
